# Coherence
## Use Repetition to Link Ideas, Sentences, and Paragraphs
Repeating key words or phrases helps connect and focus idea(s) throughout the
essay. Repetition also helps the reader remain focused and headed in the right
direction.

Example:
Most students are intimidated by the works of William Shakespeare.  They
believe Shakespeare’s sonnets and plays are far to complicated to read and
understand.

## Use Transitional Expressions to Link Ideas, Sentences, and Paragraphs
Transitional expressions, such as however, because, therefore, and in addition,
are used to establish relationships between ideas, sentences, and paragraphs.
They serve as signals to let the reader know the previous idea, sentence, or
paragraph is connected to what follows. For a list of the most commonly used
transitional expressions, refer to the Southeastern Writing Center’s handout
Useful Transitional Words and Phrases.

Example:
Many students believe they cannot write a good essay because they are not
writers. However, as they practice writing and work on developing their writing
skills, most students are able to gain the needed confidence to start thinking
of themselves writers.

## Use Pronouns to Link Sentences
Pronouns are used to link or connect sentences by referring to preceding nouns
and pronouns. Pronouns can also help create paragraphs that are easy to read by
eliminating wordiness and unnecessary repetition.

Example:
Mr. Thompson agreed to meet with members of the worker’s union before he signed
the contract. He was interested in hearing their concerns about the new
insurance plan.

## Use Synonyms to Link Ideas and Create Variety
Synonyms are words that have the same or nearly the same meaning as another
word. They provide alternative word choices that can add variety to an essay
and can help eliminate unnecessary repetition.

Example:
Teenagers face an enormous amount of peer pressure from friends and
schoolmates. As a result, many young adults are exhibiting signs of severe
stress or depression at an early age.

## Use Parallel Structures to Link Ideas, Sentences, and Paragraphs
Parallelism is the use of matching words, phrases, clauses, or sentence
structures to express similar ideas. Parallel structures allow the reader to
flow smoothly from one idea, sentence, or paragraph to the next and to
understand the relationships and connections between ideas.

Example:
Usually, the children spend the summer weekends playing ball in park,
swimming in the neighbor’s pool, eating ice cream under the tree, or camping in
the backyard.

At the museum, the class attended a lecture where the speaker
demonstrated how the Native Americans made bows and arrows. They also attended
a lecture where a sword smith demonstrated how the Vikings crafted swords.

## Using transitional words and phrases
helps papers read more smoothly, and at the same time allows the reader to flow
more smoothly from one point to the next.

Transitions enhance logical organization and understandability and improve the
connections between thoughts. They indicate relations, whether within a
sentence, paragraph, or paper.

This list illustrates categories of "relationships" between ideas, followed by
words and phrases that can make the connections:

### Addition:
also, again, as well as, besides, coupled with, furthermore, in addition,
likewise, moreover, similarly

Example:
When there is a trusting relationship coupled with positive reinforcement, the
partners will be able to overcome difficult situations.

### Consequence:
accordingly, as a result, consequently, for this reason, for this purpose,
hence, otherwise, so then, subsequently, therefore, thus, thereupon, wherefore

Example:
Highway traffic came to a stop as a result of an accident that morning.

### Contrast and Comparison:
contrast, by the same token, conversely, instead, likewise, on one hand, on the
other hand, on the contrary, rather, similarly, yet, but, however, still,
nevertheless, in contrast

Example:
The children were very happy. On the other hand, and perhaps more importantly,
their parents were very proactive in providing good care.

### Direction:
here, there, over there, beyond, nearly, opposite, under, above, to the left,
to the right, in the distance

Example:
She scanned the horizon for any sign though in the distance she could not see
the surprise coming her way.

### Diversion:
by the way, incidentally

Example:
He stumbled upon the nesting pair incidentally found only on this hill.

### Emphasis
above all, chiefly, with attention to, especially, particularly, singularly

Example:
The Quakers gathered each month with attention to deciding the business of
their Meeting.

### Exception:
aside from, barring, beside, except, excepting, excluding, exclusive of, other
than, outside of, save

Example:
Consensus was arrived at by all of the members exclusive of those who could not
vote.

### Exemplifying:
chiefly, especially, for instance, in particular, markedly, namely,
particularly, including, specifically, such as

Example:
Some friends and I drove up the beautiful coast chiefly to avoid the heat
island of the city.

### Generalizing:
as a rule, as usual, for the most part, generally, generally speaking,
ordinarily, usually

Example:
There were a few very talented artists in the class, but for the most part the
students only wanted to avoid the alternative course.

### Illustration:
for example, for instance, for one thing, as an illustration, illustrated with,
as an example, in this case

Example:
The chapter provided complex sequences and examples illustrated with a very
simple schematic diagram.

### Similarity:
comparatively, coupled with, correspondingly, identically, likewise, similar,
moreover, together with

Example:
The research was presented in a very dry style though was coupled with examples
that made the audience tear up.

### Restatement:
in essence, in other words, namely, that is, that is to say, in short, in
brief, to put it differently

Example:
In their advertising business, saying things directly was not the rule. That is
to say, they tried to convey the message subtly though with creativity.

### Sequence:
at first, first of all, to begin with, in the first place, at the same time,
for now, for the time being, the next step, in time, in turn, later on,
meanwhile, next, then, soon, the meantime, later, while, earlier,
simultaneously, afterward, in conclusion, with this in mind,

Example:
The music had a very retro sound but at the same time incorporated a complex
modern rhythm.

## Reference
https://www.southeastern.edu/acad_research/programs/writing_center/handouts/pdf_handouts/coherence.pdf
http://www.studygs.net/wrtstr6.htm
